---
id: 3364
title: 'Wonpy: a tool to get SEO keywords from Google Ads'
date: 2020-08-20T15:13:52+00:00
author: Newb
layout: post
guid: https://new.blicio.us/?p=3364
permalink: /wonpy-a-tool-to-get-seo-keywords-from-google-ads/
classic-editor-remember:
  - classic-editor
slide_template:
  - ""
---
SEO is one of the key elements to generate a greater impact with a website, because its correct use can influence a better positioning within the results of search engines.

If you usually work with Google Ads campaigns, there is a tool that can help you improve your position in search engines. It is Wonpy, a platform that suggests the most appropriate keywords to use, based on the data generated by the activity of your advertiser account.

An advantage offered by this service is the possibility of taking advantage of its functions without having to master advanced notions of SEO or digital marketing. By using automated tools, Wonpy will take care of making suggestions as accurately as possible.

To access this tool you just have to register in it, and then link the Google Ads account used to manage the ads. The linking between these services is guided step by step and is done in a secure way, through the API provided by Google. The permission, which can be revoked at any time, provides read-only access to the key information in your ads, without compromising personal information such as your password or other data.

After completing this first setup process, which should take one or a couple of minutes at most, Wonpy's algorithm will be enabled to automatically begin identifying a number of proven, low-competitive, SEO-tested keywords with significant search volume and the highest possible return rate.

As an added value to the service, Wonpy does not query the same database used in other keyword search tools. This allows access to a number of tags that might not be present in the keyword research reports of other sites of your direct competition.

Thanks to the automation of many of its functions, this platform does not ask its users to constantly provide new initial keywords, to be used as a basis for performing new searches. By monitoring Google Ads campaigns, the finding of new keywords will run itself.

Additionally, Wonpy guarantees its users that its work is based on the use of proven metrics and not on estimates. This data comprises the click logs, CTR and conversion rates that this service collects from the logs linked to your website.

Going deeper into its mode of operation, this service calculates the difficulty of keywords by considering several elements at once. Apart from the results that search engines (SERP) currently produce, the evaluation of the organic strength of the web content is also part of its formula. In addition, data obtained from Google Ads campaigns gather terms obtained from search trends.

Another interesting option is the possibility of hiring editors with SEO training to produce articles optimized to improve the positioning of the web. An alternative to bring your site to life if you have the resources and lack the time or inspiration to try it on your own.

This tool was created by the team of the Colombian digital marketing agency Trafiko, which is also a Google Partner.

Wonpy offers a free keyword search. To access it, you must register on the platform from wonpy.com.