---
id: 3880
title: Young Entrepreneurs of the Future Prefer Doing than Talking
date: 2020-09-23T12:28:24+00:00
author: Newb
layout: post
guid: https://new.blicio.us/?p=3880
permalink: /young-entrepreneurs-of-the-future-prefer-doing-than-talking/
classic-editor-remember:
  - classic-editor
slide_template:
  - default
ilj_linkdefinition:
  - 'a:0:{}'
fifu_image_url:
  - https://i.imgur.com/oKZbEDq.jpg
fifu_image_alt:
  - Auto Draft
rank_math_internal_links_processed:
  - "1"
image: https://i.imgur.com/oKZbEDq.jpg
tags:
  - gen y
  - gen z
---
The young leaders of the future, unlike the current generation, have a greater tendency to discipline, a greater sense of duty and a greater respect for order and routine. Verbal analysis of the speeches of both generations shows a greater tendency to action on the part of Future Leaders.

[LLYC](https://www.llorenteycuenca.com/), a global communications and public affairs consulting firm, in collaboration with Trivu, a global ecosystem that promotes opportunities for young talent, has presented the "Future Leaders" project in Sondersland, a pioneering study based on NLP technology and Artificial Intelligence to meet the new generation of leaders, under 30 years old, of Spanish and Portuguese language.

The 'sketch' generated by the psychometric model of this study draws the Future Leaders as a community that respects the welfare of others, with the need to transcend themselves and prioritize the collective.

In this line, the morphosemantic analysis ratifies that this generation has a discourse much more focused on community and social values and anchored to the importance of team-play. Thus, nouns like "People", "Family", "Friends", "Team" or "Support" or verbs like "Help", "Share" or "Participate" are very recurrent in their interventions).

Also the use of the adjectives "Public", "Climate" or "Social" are among the most used by the youngest leaders. In fact, the study points out how references to social areas such as "Education" or "Health" are much more relevant for Future Leaders.

Regarding the qualities of their leadership, Future Leaders stand out for their highly passionate and more sensitive leadership. Specifically, linguistic processing techniques point out that the use of emotional words is 45% more abundant in the speech of Future Leaders and that, in 78% of the cases, they have a positive character.

In this line, adjectives such as "Beautiful", "Incredible", "Wonderful", "Favorite", "Positive" or "Beautiful", are not only part of the top-50 of the most common in the new generation of leaders; they also contrast with the language used by current leaders, which could be described as colder and much more professionalized and technical.

## The word "Thank you" and the "Do" before the "Say

The report also concludes that, in their role as leaders, younger people have a greater tendency to discipline, a greater sense of duty and greater respect for order and routine. In fact, verbal analysis of the speeches of both generations shows a greater tendency to action on the part of Future Leaders.

Thus, it shows that the younger ones use more assiduously the verb "To do" (second most used verb) than the verb "To say" (a frequency inverted in the case of the current generation). Also the new generation appeals more frequently to the action of "Work" and words like "Achieve", "Create" and "Generate" are only part of the vocabulary of the Future Leaders.

One of the most striking differences between the two generations is their use of the word "Thank you". Specifically, the analysis places this expression as the most used by the Future Leaders; while in the case of the current leaders it drops to half of the table (position 25). This reinforces the idea that the new leaders are better situated on the individual-community axis.

Also one of the most distinctive facets of Future Leaders is the sensitivity to the external, to what transcends the individual 'self'. Their discursive footprint shows that the youngest have a greater predisposition to understand their surroundings and that they give greater importance to learning. Verbs like "Learn", "Find", "Know", "Search", "Understand" or "Listen" are much more common in their public interventions.

Based on the definition of the transformational leadership model, LLYC and Trivu have developed a list that identifies 120 Spanish and Portuguese speaking young people, called to be the Future Leaders. Born after 1990 and coming from 12 countries, it groups together references from very diverse spheres of influence: from technology, medicine and the environment, to social affairs, entrepreneurship and gastronomy.

In Spain, the ten distinguished profiles have been Alejandra Acosta (co-founder of Break The Silence), Álex Sicart (CEO and co-founder of Shasta), Antonio Espinosa de los Monteros Darnaude (co-founder and CEO of Auara), David Rodríguez (creator of the Pegasus Foundation), Elvira Sastre (writer), Jan Carbonell (co-founder of Akademy). [ai](https://new.blicio.us/why-artificial-intelligence-is-still-not-that-intelligent/)), Maitane Alonso (researcher), María Laín (environmental activist), Mohamed Em Amrani (president of Red de Convivencia de Roses) and Nerea Luis Mingueza (co-founder of T3chfest). Three basic criteria have been taken into account for their selection: the possession of a purpose, their mobilizing potential and, finally, their capacity to influence.

### Research based on AI technology

The personality analysis and profiling techniques used in this study have a solid scientific basis. Specifically, and based on Trait Theory, LLYC and Trivu have employed the Big Five psychometric analysis model.

Additionally, during the research, NLP and Artificial Intelligence techniques have been implemented that have allowed processing, among others, 1,017,391 words, 11,771 tweets or 8,931 posts in Instagram, and 81 full speeches in YouTube from leaders of all generations of Spanish and Portuguese language.