---
title: Experience as a PRINCE2 practitioner
layout: post
image: https://i.imgur.com/NOJjrPQ.jpg
permalink: /Experience-as-a-PRINCE2-practitioner
---

<p>If you have experience of prince2 practitioner project management, you are qualified to read on. I have been in the <a href="https://www.knowledgetreetraining.com/courses/prince2-training/prince2-practitioner-training-course">prince2 practitioner project management</a> field for over 20 years and have certainly practiced it thoroughly. I want to offer a few insights about effective prince2 practitioner project management. Most of what you will read I will not have to interest you in constantly learning how to do something you have never tried. These concepts, along with many others, will be something you have heard before. Hopefully you are gaining all of your prince2 practitioner project management experience and hopefully you are already starting to think about this topic before you're starting your next prince2 practitioner project. I believe that there are 6 simple things you can implement that will help you move forward in prince2 practitioner project management. We're going to cover three of them.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>Number one - leadership. Why? Because prince2 practitioner project managers fail to realize that they begin at 1 o'clock in the morning. The big question is are you a leader or a follower? In fact, are you on the payroll or are you Discipline entrepreneurship? Have you ever tried to train aPed Avalanche? While, personally, I don't recommend you do (especially when your client set you up with a consultant!), now more than ever, it is important to hire capable reliable consulting professionals. These jobs require specific skill sets and tactics. From my experience training prince2 practitioner project managers across many fields, I know that less than 5% of professionals will be effective and book of that 5% will be graffiti artists. When you think about it - and I do, people are going to hit you, slap or punch you in your face before you finish your breath. You have 100 other things to do. With any great leader, you have to be attractive and you have to be coach-able. And this may not be particularly easy for anyone who has never been in a leadership role. Ultimately that is the purpose of leadership.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>Number two - work well with others. The reason we often see prince2 practitioner project managers lead a prince2 practitioner project out of fear, stress, or some other negative motivator is that they respect the team. Now, I am not advocating that we all become an excellent leader. I am not saying you have to add the title: Prince2 practitioner project Manager and really inhabit that role. I am saying, that successful leadership for prince2 practitioner projects requires you to "play well with others". To be an effective leader, you must work with others. You can't leave them to their own devices. Sometimes you have to be somewhat hard charging and you have to have the courage to shut yourself out against someone else's abilities. Remember, those around you and especially your team have to be able to take direction. This includes the unexpected and everyone's strengths. If you have been a really good leader and have built up a good team and people think you can keep them on track, you are holding their feet to the fire. This is not meant to demonstrate inadequacy because I am not saying. However, I know that every manager would agree that you have to lead well. You have to work well with your team on important prince2 practitioner projects and you have to keep their minds focused on the result. Unfortunately, not all of the team will understand these concepts and if they don't, it will be difficult for you to move forward.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>Number three - temples and Born Again,Data Redundancy. I do not claim to have this field data and info just yet. But I am of the opinion that it helps my team. This is a critical point to understanding this article. The group is adamant this to me that ANY prince2 practitioner project is going to be late, over budget, with extra bells and whistles, and without this data. Well, if that is true, then every prince2 practitioner project is over budget and will be late, under budget, and almost without additional bells and whistles? On my team I have had leaders who have caused more work than most teams. They understood debt, debt, and more debt. I can tell you that it is important to ensure that you set up for success and then to be that authoritative and trust that the team matches the expertise of the leader. Does the team member have the skills to successfully release themselves to analyze the information, to create the analysis, and to make the recommendations? If the answer is no, then you have set the expectation that they had to figure it all out on their own and you are setting your team up for disappointment, management frustration, and even failure.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>This is the point. All the data and reports you generate should come from people who are doing the work and keep them in the loop so that the results are accurate and you have a successful number to consider.</p>
