---
title: Overview of PRINCE2 Foundation variables
layout: post
image: https://i.imgur.com/NJrCcPo.jpg
permalink: /overview-of-prince2-foundation-variables

<p>In this article present a brief overview about the seven variables of successful prince2 project management. As a highly motivated individual <a href="https://www.knowledgetreetraining.com/courses/prince2-training/prince2-foundation-training-course">prince2 foundation project manager</a>, you are its centre. Thus, prince2 project managers need skills and techniques that are more than practical. Effective prince2 project management need to effectively deal with; time-critical situations, support from methodology and logical approaches.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>The reason why prince2 project management is important is because it lets you manage your prince2 projects so that when, never again will you sacrifice your team for your prince2 projects or risk your team's pocketbook for prince2 projects that may not be mission critical. If a prince2 project demands resources or cannot manage itself, we all know that organizations pay their bills, but unfortunately, not this is paid for.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>Key recognise Elements of a successful Prince2 project</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- Resource appropriateness</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- Children of the grave</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- Risk-reduction</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- Business Process Re-engineering</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>It is impossible to prove that a prince2 project will advance a company. For a prince2 project to advance, it must be delivered with logic. This is not less here; the lack of logic may result in excuses and the wrong way of doing things.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>Therefore, excellent prince2 project managers not only present a role for themselves but they also create responsibilities and accountability for every team member that helps then manage and drive the prince2 project. And this is the crux of this article. Your skills and skills of your team will enable you to achieve goals and plan for success. Put simply: you have effective team member skills if you are able to-</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o Direct</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o Manage</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o Coach</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o Plan</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>Do three things a competent assistant manager would do:</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- Prioritise</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- Prioritise time</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- Prioritise work within your team</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>This is where the role of prince2 project managers take a crucial role in ensuring the success of a business plan or scheme. A prince2 projects may fail due to poor or inappropriate management at this critical phase of the plan or plan. The role of a prince2 project manager is to working with those responsible to develop and manage a plan to ensure success.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>PrevLimit the Open Mind</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>When breakdowns occur, good practice dictates the team believe the failure is down to something else. The team takes the role of constructive criticism which can often be received in the most obnoxious way.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>If it was down to something else, how is that possible? If you look at the conditions that you have as a manager, what are the model things that you have to change or "reinvent the wheel" for?</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>If it weren't for the team or organizational manager, you would not have that team and there would be no processes in place. Let's take a look at processes:</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- A procedure for how you perform daily business.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- A procedure for how you evaluate the performance of the next line manager.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- A procedure for how you delegate tasks.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- A procedure for how you deal and work with employees.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- A procedure for how you deal with change.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>- A procedure for how you handle customer complaints.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>These are just a few examples that if they fixed correctly, would set you out from where you are right now - in a better position to manage your team and achieve a position where they will be more likely to push for a better process. The bottom line: if the process was easier for the team to work, then they would be more likely to perform.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>This is a further area where the implementation of team building groups, motivational tools and/or leadership training is crucial because it can be difficult, if not impossible, to re-educate every member of the team to better perform their jobs. Without the new practices, you won't advance workers:</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o The first step is to "discover" a better way or way back to a working routine.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o That "discovery" need not be overly dramatic</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o It is advisable to administer some type of training program</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o Show the plan-holders they are now involved and that their input is essential to the success of the plan.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>When tasking with a team to develop a plan, you will discover it requires thinking on your part. And you will increase the chance of accomplishing your prince2 project goals when you determine your outcomes and goals, and then check in with the team to verify your understanding of how they will reach those goals and how specific goals will be achieved. This is of utmost importance, because:</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o You put the team into the action and reap the rewards</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o You motivate them to part with their best effort and provide meaningful feedback</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o You can then provide concrete direction</p> <p>&nbsp;</p> <p>o You can then create a " totrain" for more focused and optimized roles - better accountability and more effective accountability is improved when you title a person one, and a "</p>
